---
title: Attendance & Participation
comment: >
  **Pro tips for managing Basecamp notifications:** Basecamp can get very noisy, especially around
  the time everyone is posting and responding to draft projects. By default, Basecamp will send you
  email notifications when people post. That gets super annoying, real fast. But you can always
  visit [your notification settings in
  Basecamp](https://3.basecamp.com/3058761/my/notifications/settings/edit) and tune them to your
  liking. You can even set which hours of the day you want to receive notifications. I prefer to get
  notifications on my phone, which are easy to group and dismiss, just to stay on top of things.
  Even if I respond later, from another device, I find it useful to have a sense of what’s
  happening.
---

Your active participation on Basecamp is required both for your own success and for the success of
the class as a whole. Attendance at live class meetings does not impact your participation grade,
but I do hope that everyone who is able joins those meetings, either in person or via Google Meet.

I do not squander students’ time with reading quizzes (I am way more interested in giving *you* the
opportunity to ask questions about the reading), but I do assign a lot of reading. Seriously, ask
around. And I expect you to be prepared to discuss that reading on the Discussions and Announcements
Basecamp.

In your discussion posts, be sure to highlight your questions about the readings or on topics
related to the readings. If you have no questions, either you didn’t read very carefully, or you're
not likely a very curious or interesting person. If you genuinely have no questions, you had better
dazzle us all with your fresh insights and superior analysis of the readings. Under no circumstance
should you post a summary of the reading. No one wants to read a crappy summary. And no one will
respond to it either. Neither will the instructor.

Beyond the reading discussions, there will be weekly Q&A threads on the Discussion and Announcements
Basecamp, too. Take advantage of those. Any question related to the course, however tenuously, is
fair game. You are also 100% welcome and encouraged to start your own discussion thread if you have
a large or complicated question—or just don’t want to risk your question getting lost in the
shuffle.

Additionally, you should be posting to the Project Showcase Basecamp about your individual and group
progress, questions, and challenges as you complete the course’s major projects. You are also
responsible for responding to the work and questions of others in the class. Yes, you might not yet
be an expert in this material (that’s why you’re in the class, right?), but you have a lot to offer
in terms of pointing to readings, course videos, or just spotting typos and goofs that make their
way into the code of every developer, regardless of experience.

<section class="participation-grading" markdown="1">
### Participation Grading

Students intending to earn an A for Participation should be posting substantively on the Discussion
& Announcements Basecamp five times or more per week (80+ posts over the sixteen-week semester),
with contributions appearing multiple days per week, all semester long. Students earning a B will
post three to five times (at least 48 posts for the semester), and students earning a C will post
two times, every week (at least 32 posts). Fewer than an average of two discussion contributions per
week will result in a failing Participation grade.

Participation points are incredibly easy points to earn, and likewise incredibly easy points to miss
out on. They will be tallied at three checkpoints this semester: sometime around Week Four (20% of
the total participation points), sometime around Week Ten (40% of the total participation points),
and sometime around Week Fifteen (the remaining 40% of the total participation points; 20% + 40% +
40% = 100%).

*Sometime around…* means plus or minus one week. The exact date will not be announced ahead of time,
and point-totals for the percentage in question will not be adjusted after the tally. So if you’re
the kind of student who’s only motivated by points, there’s your reason to stay on top of Basecamp.
For everyone else, good discussions rely on both timeliness and interesting content. No one wants to
be notified, let alone read, a crappy post about stuff we read seven weeks ago, and no one posting
such a thing will earn credit for it, either. Just scorn from the rest of us.

While you are certainly encouraged to post to the Social Hour Basecamp, that activity does not
affect your participation grade.
</section>
