---
title: Technology Policy
---

Technology is an essential part of this class. You are just as responsible for learning to
configure, command, and troubleshoot various technologies as for any other course content.
Difficulty with technology is not an acceptable excuse for being unprepared for class or for
submitting late, incomplete, or substandard work.

If you are having trouble with technology or any other material covered in this course, it is your
professional responsibility to find supplemental materials to troubleshoot and solve your problems.
Ask questions on the weekly Q&A threads on Basecamp, too. Just make use of the search feature on
Basecamp first: it’s entirely possible that someone has experienced your same difficulty and gotten
an answer from someone else in the class or the instructor. Don’t earn yourself a reputation for
asking the same question that’s already been asked and answered. And yes: you absolutely should
monitor the Q&A threads. You’ll find students asking questions that might not have even occurred to
you.

You are discouraged in the strongest possible terms from using Windows in this class. Running
Windows in a development class is like showing up to a cooking class with [an Easy-Bake
Oven](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Easy-Bake_Oven). Windows is not suited to professional
development, other than perhaps developing Windows applications. This class uses professional-grade,
POSIX-compliant environments and tools. If your operating system doesn’t support something as basic
and ancient as the `ls` command, you need to get an operating system that does. Immediately.

If you think you know better and opt to run Windows, you are 100% on your own when it comes to
getting the required tools and technologies to run on your machine. And even if you’re successful at
that, know that by continuing to use Windows, you are hamstringing your education and growth as a
developer—as well as your future career prospects. Dual-boot into or at least virtualize a
POSIX-style operating system.

<section class="git-and-github" markdown="1">
### Git and GitHub

We will be running a number of important tools from the command line in this class. That includes
Git. You must make all commits and manage branches, etc. from the command line. It is neither good
nor acceptable professional practice to use GUI-based Git software or to make commits directly on
GitHub itself. Your primary interactions with GitHub will be pushing, fetching, and pulling via the
command line.

Speaking of GitHub, I have asked you to sign up for a GitHub account for this class. Note that
GitHub accounts are public, as are most social-type accounts. To protect your privacy you are
certainly allowed to use a pseudonym/alias for GitHub and any other similar account. That being
said, you might want to think about the high value of establishing GitHub and other accounts under
your own name or professional alias. Public accounts where you conduct yourself professionally might
well be an asset to your online presence, improving the search results that future schools or
employers turn up when they look for you on Google and elsewhere.
</section>
